Hey you.
Yeah, you.
Who else would I be talking to?
Weird.
Um, welcome to your first real
lesson in the Journey Home.
Okay.
So let's take a second to just
remember why we're here, shall we?
And it's not just for the content, right?
And it's not to be quote unquote better.
We're here to remember
the truth of who we are.
See, every person was
born whole, including you.
But in order to survive, you adapted.
You learned to hide what felt unsafe.
Okay?
You wore the mask that they
rewarded, you pretended you
performed, and eventually you forgot.
You forgot that the real you, the full,
whole, alive, powerful you was still there
waiting beneath the layers, beneath the
stories, beneath the survival strategies.
And that pain that you've been
feeling, that's the real you and
it's rebelling against a life
that won't allow it to be free.
And this is not about fixing you, okay?
It's about finding you.
That's the work of this course, to retrace
the maze, to strip away the pretense,
to meet the self behind the story.
And in doing that,
something beautiful happens.
The journey itself transforms you into
the person you were always meant to
be, because this path wasn't random.
It was made for you.
In fact, in a way it was made by you,
by the ways the, the brilliant child
that you were chose to protect themself.
You're not broken, you're not behind,
you're exactly where you need to be.
And you already have
everything you need to succeed.
The hero's journey, that's our map.
Remember, and like Joseph Campbell
said, "We have not to risk the adventure
alone for the heroes of all time
have gone before us. The labyrinth
is thoroughly known. We have only to
follow the thread of the hero path."
All you have to do is accept
the call and you're here.
So that means you have.
And before we can reclaim the
life we were born for, we have
to understand how we lost it.
We're gonna look at the
psychological system that shaped
you, your ego, your persona, and
the shadow you've been avoiding.
Not to shame yourself, but to
liberate yourself because you can
see clearly and you can change it.
But to start, we have to get
one thing straight, okay?
You're not who you think you are, and
that is actually a really good thing.
So give me a moment and I'll explain.
Alright, check out this drawing.
Okay.
So some of these terms may look
familiar to some of you, and I really
hope I'm not bringing up like some
psych 102 traumas or something.
But I do want you to get familiar
with the the different building blocks
that come together to create you.
And I think this is an excellent picture.
Okay.
This is probably the the densest material
that I'll cover in the entire course.
By the way, it won't all be like this,
I promise, but let's, uh, let's just
set a firm foundation to get started.
You don't need to memorize
any of this, by the way.
You'll, you'll start to
feel what it means as we go.
Just let it wash over you for
now, but there will be a test.
I'm joking.
Okay, so briefly before we get
started, we don't quote unquote
know anything about the mind.
Okay?
We have working theories based on
what we can observe and what makes
sense, but they're just that theories.
So what I'm showing you here
is a map of the self or the,
the psyche as conceptualized
by the psychologist, Carl Jung.
And now I'm deeply impacted
by the work of Jung and also
Joseph Campbell, who happened to
generate this particular diagram.
So what I really like about this
is that it shows us the ways that
our psychology is really shaped
and reinforced by our environment.
Okay.
So check this out.
Plato says, the soul is a circle.
So we've got a big circle here, right?
And if this whiteboard was completely
infinite and represented every single
potential combination of traits and
beliefs and preferences you could ever
have, what's in the circle are the ones
that make up your potential, right?
Some people are loud, they love
spreadsheets, they hate small talk.
Uh, they cry at car commercials.
Uh, they think pineapple, pineapple
is absolutely does belong on pizza
and they can't sleep without socks on.
Right?
There's one, others are quiet.
They dance salsa on Saturdays.
They read ancient philosophy for fun.
They think astrology is real and
that you're definitely a Scorpio
and, uh, can't eat in public without
cleaning the whole table afterwards.
Right.
And then there's that guy who's a, a
natural leader, secretly loves anime.
He avoids confrontation like
it's a sport and still isn't.
Over the time he lost the fifth
grade spelling bee, right?
Every one of those traits inside the
circle, inside the potential, and every
person ends up with a different handful
that gets developed, expressed, or buried.
And the line here, okay.
That represents the boundary between
your conscious and unconscious mind.
You, uh, may remember from school that
our minds are like icebergs, right?
What we really see is just the tip.
That's why it's the smaller part.
Most of us exists as
subconscious or unconscious.
Below that line.
Now, inside this top
portion, what we're aware of.
There's an even smaller subset of
these traits, beliefs and preferences.
It's the person we think we are.
That's our ego, our identity.
Okay?
This is stuff like I am strong.
I am a high achiever.
I am a man.
I am a woman.
I am.
Okay.
It's not everything we're aware of.
It's a carefully constructed,
well-manicured concept that we
like to believe about ourselves.
It's your internal narrator.
Okay?
The version of you that says, I'm
the kind of person who, okay, right?
It's this hard square inside
a curved and flowing circle.
So what do I mean by it's not
everything we're aware of for this.
We need to talk pizza with
pineapple, by the way.
For instance, I am aware that
I've eaten pizza before and
that I really liked it, right?
But it's not part of my identity.
I'm a pizza lover.
That would be identity.
I know for some of you, it definitely is
part of your identity and that's awesome.
I love you people, but I'll bet that
even for some of you who identify as a
pizza lover, you have places and people.
Where you might not show
that part of yourself, right?
You're at the gym and you're working
out with all your, uh, health
conscious friends and they're like,
oh my God, have you tried that new
salad at the cafeteria in the office?
So good.
And I can't even believe how many
low fat dressings they have, right?
Yeah.
You might be like, yeah,
salad is my favorite.
It's funny to say.
Okay.
The next time you're at the office
cafeteria together, you see that
station with the pizza by the slice.
It's all hot and steamy and you pass
it up and to fit in, you grab a big
ass salad knowing full well you're
definitely having pizza for dinner
when you get home to your fortress of
solitude where you can be the real you.
Right?
So wait, the real you as in there's a you
that you are when you're alone, and a you
that you are when you're around others.
Yeah.
So that second one, what's, what's that?
That is what Carl Jung called the persona.
Right.
It's like a hat.
It's like an outfit you wear when
you walk into a job interview.
Right.
It's polished, it's
edited, it's calculated.
It's not fake exactly, but it is curated.
It's the mask that you learned
to wear, to survive, to be liked,
to be seen, to be accepted.
It's absolutely essential for society to
thrive, but it's one of the very things
that keeps you from being able to accept
love and express who you really are.
So just sit with this for a second.
Where in your life are you still curating
a version of yourself to be accepted?
Right.
Now there's one more piece to
this puzzle that I want to name.
Uh, we're not gonna go deep into this,
uh, into this course, but just beneath
all of this, beneath the traits we're
aware of, beneath even the persona,
we'll eventually find the shadow.
Okay.
And the shadow is made up of all the
parts of you that you've disowned
or rejected, traits that didn't
feel safe, acceptable, or lovable.
Now, it's not evil, it's not bad,
it's just, it's the stuff that had
to be hidden in order to survive.
And just like the persona, the shadow
is built by the world around us.
Unlike the persona, which is the
mask we wear to fit in the shadow, is
what we hide even from ourselves to
be able to believe that we're good.
Okay, so in the next video we're
gonna dive into why that mask the
persona exists, how it's created, and
why it's so dang hard to take off.